So today's class is the first in a series of videos that we're going to be called the
Trader Funding Program Masterclass.
This is a brand new series that we're doing to go over everything you need to know about
what a trader funding program is, the opportunities that are there, how we work with them, how
you can get funded as a trader, different types of accounts, how they try to game you,
how you can try to game them, how to plan around, you know, the different scenarios you
need to plan for when trading, you know, how to learn to wait to strike, like when is a
good time to trade to up your probability of winning, and, you know, essentially in general
how to take advantage of all the different angles of a trader funding program where things
you don't even think of like clever ways.
And we'll talk about all of those today.
Okay, now, what is a trader funding program, otherwise known in 2025, the date of this
video, as a prop firm.
Now, a prop firm is sort of a, an institution that's been around for the longest time.
Traditional prop firm is a place where you can go and trade, you prove yourself going through
a series of steps.
And once you pass certain criteria, they test you, as soon as you pass, they give you money
to trade with, you know, here's some real money, here's X amount of hundreds of thousands
or millions of dollars of capital, or sometimes you put in capital, and then they match you.
And then you've got leverage to trade with after you proved yourself as being a good trader.
Now, that institution, you know, they're all over Wall Street, and they've been around for
a while, totally illegal thing to do, has sort of like evolved in the modern day in the last
three to five years into this, you know, what they call the prop firm explosion of the 2020s.
You know, since COVID, this whole thing took off, and futures sort of like became the hot
thing for new traders.
Now, everybody's a futures trader.
Now, the prop firm explosion that we are referring to in trader funding programs is what people
collectively call prop firms.
Now, it's kind of a modified version of prop firm.
The modern day trader funding program is slightly different.
Currently, as of 2025, what you're allowed to do is you'll go to one of these firms, you'll
sign up, which usually has a fee, like a monthly fee, and you're going to pay something per month
or something per account, usually one or the other, and you're going to pay, you're going
to go through a series of steps to pass some kind of evaluation challenge, sim trading,
you know, make a certain profit, win a certain number of days, et cetera, some criteria.
And then once you make it to the end, then you go to the next step, which is called funded.
Funded.
It's supposed to be an F. It's the worst looking F I've ever seen in my life.
And when you're funded, then the whole process starts all over, except in this account, whatever
you make, you get paid out of.
Now, the modern prop firm is actually a trader funding program.
That's the more appropriate word to call them because the prop firm is sort of like you pay
a fee or you put something in, you pass a test.
And then normally when you pass, you get to what's called a live account.
You get real money.
And I'm just put the word live here, right?
I pay.
I go through the courses.
You go through the training.
I put in the money, whatever.
And then I pass a test and you give me money to trade with.
And it's a real live account.
It's real futures.
You get like your 1256 at the end of it or a K1.
I don't know how they sound.
Some set up differently.
You get your futures return, your tax return.
You put your futures gains on it from the year from your 1256.
And then it's taxed like 60-40 rule, just like futures.
Real money, real futures, real everything.
But the current prop firm structure that you'll hear people talking about,
this trader funding programs, actually have this SIM funded step,
SIM defunded or whatever step.
SIM funded is a middle step.
You're not necessarily trading a real account.
This is just pure SIM right here.
So step one is you're trading a SIM account.
SIM funded is you're trading a SIM account,
but for some reason you get paid what your gains are in a paper trading account.
It's very interesting.
And then once you pass that and get some money at a certain period of time,
then they move you to live.
So modern quote-unquote prop firms, I'm going to call them prop firms now,
I'm speaking of these SIM funded trader funding programs
that have a prop firm framework, which is this part and this part,
but with the SIM funded step for payouts in the middle.
No modern prop firm has these, like a real prop firm.
Only the SIM funded firms.
When I say SIM funded firms, they're talking about like, you know,
my funded future, top step, elite trader funding, funded next, et cetera.
All the ones you hear about on the streams and all the social media outlets, right?
For some reason, currently now, it's allowed for you to make money paper trading,
which is crazy.
It doesn't sound legal, right?
But it is.
How is it legal?
Well, there's a loophole that's being exploited.
And as of 2025, the loophole is still open.
As of 2020, whatever, regulators may change the rules or whatever.
And it might end up being like a real prop firm where they get rid of the SIM funded step
where you basically just go from SIM and then you make money.
And then once you make money in SIM and pass the test,
then they just give you the live account to go forward with,
which is really what prop firms are.
But the SIM funded step in the middle is what currently we can all exploit
and go and trade for profit.
Now, why would we want to do this, right?
What are the pros and cons of a modern day SIM funded prop firm?
And the pros are very simple.
Very low capital entry, barrier of entry is very low.
And the return can be near infinite.
You can make money putting very little in.
The risk is on the firm.
The downside to that is they're very hard to pass.
And when you do pass, you get paid wage money.
It's $10.99.
So the SIM funded step is not real futures, it's SIM.
So whatever money you make is like a paycheck.
It adds on top of your income.
If you're at the upper tax bracket, your prop gains are taxed at 37%
as opposed to 60-40 rule, which effectively is the low 20s%.
So Uncle Sam takes a huge chunk of your SIM funded payouts.
Now, again, how is this legal, right?
Getting paid to paper trade sounds highly illegal.
Well, here's the loophole.
When you're trading and you are now SIM funded, you're trading a SIM account.
Whatever gains that you make trading, the prop firm assumes that that's
quote unquote market research.
They're doing market research and paying you for it.
Your trades are their research.
And then they're paying you equally whatever you made in a paycheck, which is $10.99.
You're considered kind of like an employee or a contractor of the firm.
Thank you for doing $110,000 of profits.
Here's $110,000 for the research data that we now acquired from your trading.
Thank you.
They're paying you for your data.
And that's the loophole.
That's how it's technically allowed.
If they're like, we're just going to pay you to paper trade, that's technically called
a bucket shop.
And that's quite not legal.
So the loophole is certainly there.
And the question becomes how long until regulators say, you guys can't do this anymore.
You got to get rid of the SIM funded step.
If they do, and at the time you watch this video, the SIM funded step has been removed
from modern day prop firms.
It's likely to be the same thing without it, a traditional prop firm.
You're going to pay something that passed the SIM environment, getting paid nothing.
You're going to accrue some kind of balance.
And then they're going to put that balance to a real account.
And then that real account, you'll make whatever gains off of that.
Either way, all the things I'm going to teach you in this webinar series apply.
Now, if you have any questions during the course of this video, you guys are welcome to type
anything and ask.
And I can answer them live, but keep that to a minimum because we are recording this.
Okay.
Now, what are the pros, right?
Let's talk about SIM trading in general.
You want to go out there and practice trading in a paper trade.
SIM trading literally is the most wasteful use of your time.
And I know it sounds very sort of counterintuitive to what you've been taught.
This is a master level class.
Even as a beginner, you want to learn this stuff.
SIM trading has the following.
Risk, zero.
Reward, zero.
Emotion, right?
Zero.
There's no emotion.
Education.
What you gain out of it overall?
Minimal.
Really nothing, right?
You're just pushing buttons.
It's fake money, fake reward, fake profit.
You take no emotions, no fear, no risk, no nothing.
And you're going to get nothing out of it.
It's a complete waste of time.
You gain nothing from SIM trading.
You should probably SIM trade for a day or so for a couple of reasons.
To get used to a trading platform.
Wait, which button do I click to long or short?
Which is the button?
Oh, there it is.
And get used to how the platform works, where to line up your charts.
And practice, you know, using the platform in real time.
Yeah, SIM trading is good.
Go for a practice day or two to get used to, like, where are the buttons?
You're not fumbling on the technical part of a trading platform while you're trying to trade.
Holy crap.
Oh, how do I do a stop loss?
Oh, wait.
Was it right click, left click?
You don't want to deal with that.
Like, practice that part, yes.
But not the trading part.
Now, the strategy that you might be testing, practice your execution on a strategy as well
for a day or two to get used to the strategy.
But note that the longer you practice without emotion in a trading strategy, you're removing
the most important part of a trading strategy is the emotions you have while using it.
So even a SIM practice trial on a new strategy, like, I'm going to try something new like Rocket
Scooter and you're going to go out there and trade in SIM.
It's not really helping you.
Once you learn, like, the entries and you're practicing, memorizing what you're supposed
to do, okay, that makes sense.
But then also, your SIM results will never mirror your real results because the emotional
part is a big part of why you do lose as a trader, okay?
So SIM trading as a way for people to practice is a complete waste of time.
You should spend very little time in a SIM environment.
Now, real environment, right?
You put your real money in the pot.
There's real risk.
There's, like, what's your risk?
All.
All of what you have.
As a matter of fact, you can actually lose more than what you have in futures.
I've taught that in a previous class.
You can actually go in debt trading futures.
You can actually lose more than you started with.
So you can lose greater than all.
Reward?
Well, infinite.
You can make infinity dollars.
Emotion?
You get the full spectrum of emotion.
You get everything from greed to fear to whatever.
Education?
Maximum.
You get the maximum of everything.
You got the max of all of these different areas.
This is all zero, so it's minimum.
This is all max, max, max, so you're max, right?
The problem with the real environment is the cost.
Your education here is free, but you get very little out of it.
Your education here is very costly, right?
Whenever I was trading, I had to learn in this real environment.
Put in 10K, blow it up.
Put in 5K, blow it up.
Put in 20K, blow it up.
This is what it's like when you're getting started trading in the early 2010s, where there
weren't trader funding programs and YouTube people to watch and a bunch of people selling
trading education.
You were basically on your own.
There weren't even micro futures at that time, believe it or not.
You had to trade minis.
So you're at thousands of dollars of risk every minute you're trading because you didn't
have micro futures invented at the time I started.
So very costly to learn the struggle.
Now, when you're learning as a trader, I always like to do this exercise, is that whenever
you, here's a graph, here's your net lick.
This is the amount of money in your account, and this is zero.
And when you're learning trading, in reality, the real education comes from a couple of things.
It's how you handle yourself under pressure.
When your net lick is going up, you're not learning anything, especially when you're first
starting out.
You get false confidence, and you're not really feeling any burn.
But the real education comes from when you're watching yourself, like, make money, make money,
make money, and then you take a big dive, and you're starting to struggle, and you're
like, oh, my God, what's going on?
I'm losing money.
Okay, things are good.
Okay, I'm better.
I'm better.
Oh, my God, there it all goes again.
Oh, my God, there it goes again.
Okay, whoa.
Oh, all right.
Whoa, I blew up.
Wow.
Okay, so in this couple of days, you know, you learned a lot.
You felt a whole bunch of stress.
Then the next time you come around, you trade again, and it's like, okay, I learned from
my mistake.
I'm doing better.
I'm doing better.
I'm doing better.
Still gaining a little.
And then you lose.
But then you remember what you did last time, and you got a little smarter, and you did something
different.
Then all of a sudden, weird stuff happens, and the market does another curveball, and you're
like this, and you're like this, and it's like this.
You're almost at zero.
And then for those days, you're like, okay, oh, my God.
Oh, I'm about to lose.
I'll do anything if I can win.
Oh, he's like, please, God, please help me.
You know, I'll give more to charity.
Just let me win.
And then, okay.
And then you're like, okay, I'm in the clear.
And then all of a sudden, you're like, oh, my God, I'm freaking out again.
I'm freaking out again.
It's this part right here that you're actually paying for.
Your education that you're gaining is what you're paying for that.
What happens at the end?
This is where you really realize what you're made of.
This is where you sort of get boastful and think you're going to quit your job and tell
your boss to F off because you made all this money.
Oh, I made my salary in a week.
I'm totally going to become a trader.
You're not learning anything there.
Forget about that.
This is where you're learning.
Now, when it's free, you're not learning any of that because you're not on your knees praying
to your God of choice when your paper accounts at zero.
You just push a button and reset it.
So you're basically gaining nothing from it.
And this is a great experience to get that because you're feeling it really hard because
that's your hard-earned money.
That could be a whole paycheck for you.
Your life savings, whatever you've invested in could be what's at stake.
So the more you're invested and the more that money means something to you, the harder
that education is, the better it is, right?
But not everybody in 2025 should be out there risking their life savings to become a trader
because the trader funding program now exists in the middle as the perfect educational tool
for new traders.
You guys are lucky that you have something like this because in a trader funding program,
as an example, I'll show you an example of one.
FundinX.
FundinX is one that we work with.
And here, let me talk about some of the plans.
Let me click on futures.
And let me just clean the chart up really quick.
Oops, let me clear this out.
So here's how it works.
I can get a 100K SIM account for $249.
If I make $6,000 before I lose $3,000, then the account goes live or the account goes funded.
And then I trade that funded account.
And then if I make money after a certain amount of time, I get a payout.
I get money back.
And so I pay a little bit of money for a potential return.
And that's what you're doing.
And there's all kinds of rules that go with them.
And this masterclass will cover them.
But that's basically what it is.
It's almost the same thing as you had before.
You're paying risk.
Yeah, some.
What was it?
Like, what was it?
$249?
Is that what it said?
Some kind of small number.
So there is some risk.
You're putting some money on the table, right?
$250.
Well, that's not a lot, right?
For some people, for most people, I'd say it's better than putting $10,000 into the market, right?
You're putting some kind of money in and you're getting some kind of reward out.
Pretty much infinite.
You can infinitely make money in some of these firms.
So it's a nerfed down version of this where you're putting some in and getting some out.
That way, when you go through your, you know, you're praying to, you know, whatever deity you want to pray to, you're still kind of praying a little bit because you put in a lot of work and you paid some money for it, right?
And so you're actually getting some emotion out of it.
Maybe not the full gamut of emotion, but some.
You've got risk and reward.
You've got greed and fear.
They go hand in hand, right?
We understand this so far, everybody.
The fact that you put some money on the table, you're going to get some emotion back, which means your education is decent, right?
So trader funding programs is a cheap, effective, or costly, or cost-effective, decent education.
That's why I got into the prop scene and got behind it.
It's a place for you guys to practice trading by setting yourself a budget of how much you're going to spend per month and be in full control of everything and learn along the way.
You may not be getting big, fat payouts for the first couple of months or first years or whatever, but hey, welcome to trading, right?
It takes a lot of people many years to become profitable.
If you're less than five years in the game and you're not profitable, don't sweat it.
That's common, okay?
Five years on average is what a lot of people, three to five years, at minimum three, is where I've seen people say they've found their stride.
So again, imagine chunking 15, 20K at the market every couple of months and blowing it up versus 1,000 bucks every couple of months.
You've got all the gambit of what a real account has, real risk, real reward, real emotions, decent education, right, with something left over.
Now, the way that this works is, again, you buy the account and you go through the parameters and then you can get paid out over whatever the course may be.
Now, current status quo as of 2025, most accounts from start to finish usually are seven to eight days of trading on average.
Some of the quicker ones are four days.
FundedX is a four-day plan.
FundedX is an eight-day plan.
Top Step is seven days.
My Funded Future is seven days.
Tradeify is five days.
They're all different, right?
But around that time, which basically means once you pass, typically from start to finish, it's roughly seven-ish days to where you can get money back.
It's just a week of trading.
So the investment is small and the time investment is also small.
You can get to your goal very quick.
Now, it sounds too good to be true, right?
Putting in 250 bucks and getting 50K in your pocket.
These things are hard as crap.
I mean, really hard.
They're designed to be hard, just like the basketball game at a carnival, right?
The rim is bent.
It's 11 feet off the ground instead of 10.
You're used to shooting at a 10-foot-tall circular, that's supposed to be a circle rim, and the rim is bent a little bit to where the ball barely fits in without space.
And so the game is harder for that to happen.
And the house has odds, right?
There is a risk model to these things where almost like a casino, they squeeze out a lot of players so that way not everybody's getting payouts.
And the way these prop firms quote-unquote work, the sim-funded side is A, they sell these evals and a lot of people fail, and then the money they make, they pay out the winners, which is a casino model, right?
The live account is totally different.
If you make it to live with a prop firm that does have live, you will be given real money to trade with, and then you and that prop firm will split the proceeds.
Pretty typical.
Now, what makes these kind of hard, right?
Well, profit target, minimal, drawdown right here, right?
6,000 profit, 3,000 drawdown.
If you lose 3,000, you're done.
If you make 6,000, you're done.
But some of the things is you can't just make it all in one day.
Some of them will have things like consistency rules, which means if it says 40%, this means that no single trade can be more than 40% of the total, which means I can't make the 6,000 in a single trade, which means I have to make it in chunks.
40% of 6,000 is $2,400, which means that if any of my trades are more than $2,400, or any of my days are bigger than $2,400, then I got to trade longer for a higher target.
They'll raise this target to keep going.
That's to keep you from just full porting into a news event at $250 and getting thousands of payout.
They make you trade multiple days.
If you do the math on coin flipping, if you consider every day a unique event of could I lose or could I win that day, and you're betting everything, pretend you're YOLOing full port, and every day is a total win or a total loss,
it means as the days go by, every day you have, the probability of you passing is 1 over 2 to the N, N is the number of days.
So example, if it's one day of passing, you have a 1 over 2 day, 1 over 2, which is a 50% chance of winning, right?
Either L or UW.
50% if N is 1, if N is 2, it's 25, if N is 3, it's 12 and a half, et cetera.
You keep dividing in half, 6 and a quarter, and onward.
Every day that you're trading, if you contemplate the mathematics of this, every extra day you're trading, the probability of you passing gets smaller and smaller and smaller.
So it's not really a 1 over 2 to the N, but if you assume that you're going to lose it all and win it all in a single day, then you can use this because it's just a coin flip.
Did you make it out alive or did you lose it all?
So as you see, the odds diminish on this dependency, and as you go to 6, 7, 8 days, the probability becomes less than 1% almost.
It gets really small, right?
5 is 3, you know, 3, 1, 2, 5, and then you can go in 1 point something and then point, you know, it's less than 1, but you get to 6, 7, 8 days.
So essentially, just on the coin flip math, 99% of people fail around day 7 or 8.
They keep you in the game long enough so the failure rate's high enough that most people should lose these things.
Now, some of the value in this is the faster you can get the payout.
That is one thing that's useful.
Some of the firms like Fundanext have a rapid account, which is 4 days to payout.
The faster you get the payout, the higher probability you have of getting a payout.
To me, that's one of the most important rules you have, the time to payout.
And a lot of times with these firms, the quicker it is to payout, the more expensive they will be.
So Fundanext is weird because they have a very cheap, quick payout.
It's one of these ones that stands out from the rest.
You can get a payout in 4 days for less than $100 for the fee, which is interesting.
So keep that in mind when you're doing the Trader Funding Program analysis and comparing them.
There's important rules that matter.
So time and market is what I like to call it, TIM, or days to payout.
Time and market is one of the biggest factors you're going to look for when comparing firms.
Okay, so usually as the time and market goes up, the price, actually let's do, let's just do this.
As the time and market goes up, the price usually goes down.
Okay, so when you have, when you're comparing firms and what the differences are, these are the main parameters you're going to care about.
So if you want to pay more money for less time, that's pretty much what you can do.
Now, what I have, another thing that they have of these rules that kind of squeeze you out, I call it the triumvirate.
There's three different parts to it.
They're going to have, each firm in the world is going to have one, if not two, if not all three of these rules, and they are as follows.
There's a consistency rule, which I briefly touched on a second ago.
A consistency rule, which limits how much you can make in a single day towards the total.
You have a daily loss limit, which basically means if you lose a small amount, they stop you trading for the day.
Account's still alive, but you soft, it's called a soft breach, you end for the day.
DLL limits your scaling, I'll cover that in a minute, or you have profit caps.
So you're not allowed to make infinity profit.
You can only make so much and then they end the program and you got to start over.
So payout cap.
Every firm is going to have one to three of these rules.
If consistency goes up, it's easier to pass.
The price usually goes up.
If the DLL goes up, the price also goes up.
It's easier to pass.
If the payout cap goes up, the price usually goes up.
You notice the trend?
And so as people, I'm sorry, if the consistency goes up, yeah, so the consistency goes up, it takes fewer days to pass.
So fewer days to pass is a higher price, typically.
All right.
So the higher the cap, the more expensive the payout is, the cost is to trade them as well.
That's the cost of going in.
Certain firms typically will have at least one of the three rules.
There's zero firm in existence that has all three of these rules gone.
The closest thing is my funded futures.
So let me talk about why that is.
Let me give you a rule down each one of them.
Consistency is something that limits how much you can make in a single trade.
If you're supposed to go from your starting point to some profit target, let's put PT here.
You can't just get there in a single day.
If it's 40% consistency, then you're going to have to take every trade, can be no more than 40% of the total, every day, sorry.
It can't be more than 20% of the total, which means 100% is the total divided by 40 is 2.5, which means at minimum you have to trade 2.5 or three days.
If you make 2,400, in this example, 40% of 6,000 is 2,400, then your trade plan is usually going to look like this.
You're going to make 2,400 the first day and then 2,400 the second day, and then you're going to get the rest of it.
It has to be less than 2,400 each day.
And then the last one, if they're 24, it's 48, then the last one you make 12, and then you're in.
And that satisfies the criteria of this.
What the consistency rule does is it forces you to stair-step your account.
It has an upper boundary of what you can do.
So I'm going to draw this with a line.
I'm going to do the word consistency.
So whatever your real P&L curve looks like, consistency is your upper boundary.
Now, daily loss limit is how much you can lose before they cut you off for the day.
FundedX doesn't have one for the legacy plan anymore.
They just got rid of it.
But used to, there would be one.
And let's just make up a number.
I think it was 2,400.
I think that was what it was.
So basically what it means is, you know, essentially as you're stair-stepping your account forward to get to pay out,
the daily loss limit is how much you can lose before you stop.
Now, an example would be if the market is selling off and you hit a target and stop out,
and then it falls against your next target, and then you stop out.
And then it falls against your next target, and then you can long and make some money.
In a real trading account, you have infinite flexibility to do that.
But if you lose too much in a trader funding program, it cuts you off for the day,
and then you can't take any more trades.
So what that does is it limits your ability to just basically martingale into a trade.
Long and long and long and long and long and long and long, and then let it go.
They have a small shutdown where you're done for the day at a smaller balance than the total.
That way you can't just infinitely scale in and pass the account.
So what that does is it sets kind of a floor as to where you stop.
So DLL has two functions.
Number one is your P&L curve, you will actually, let me draw a little bit better.
Your P&L curve only lets you, if you're losing, you can only lose so much per day if you're losing.
Because the kind of lower boundary there is what the DLL sets.
You can only lose 2,400 and lose 2,400 and lose 2,400.
So essentially, your actual P&L curve is like this kind of funnel,
where you can only like stair-step up so much, and you can only stair-step down so much.
You're kind of operating between these boundaries.
Notice how you can't just go to zero in a single day,
and you also can't go to infinity in a single day.
It's sort of like tailoring your approach to kind of keep you confined,
to keep their risk lower, right, and make it harder for you to pass.
If you had infinite money, you could just infinitely long this as it's falling
and eventually make it all back and make some money.
So you're going to have those guidelines on both sides of you for consistency in DLL.
DLL is another limiting step because a lot of people trade on multiples of their risk.
For example, if you make two-hour trades, people sometimes write it like this,
which just means two to one.
I like to say it.
I'm going to reward of two for risk of one.
Then risk is how much you're going to lose, right?
If the DLL sets how much you're going to lose, then whatever the DLL is,
if it's 2,400, then the max I can make is 4,800, right?
Because I'm only trading a multiple of two.
So say that you have a risk and reward of one to one,
then your DLL is how much you're going to make per day or per trade.
So DLL has another type of profit-limiting step,
like the consistency is limiting you at the ceiling.
DLL, if you go over consistency, that's absolutely fine.
You just have to trade longer.
But DLL also adds another layer of boundary,
meaning that you can only scale as fast as your DLL allows.
If, again, you're trading DLL as 1,000, you're trading 2 to 1,
you can only make $2,000 a day.
So the prop firm is limiting how much you can make per day
by giving you a daily loss limit.
Consistency is limiting how much you can make in a single day,
not just per day total.
So both of those together are rate-limiting steps
to keep you from infinitely making money in a single day
without risking blowing up.
If you breach your consistency,
they make this profit target bigger to satisfy this role.
You have to trade more days in market,
which we talked about every day in the market
is another coin flip you lose.
So if I accidentally trade bigger than 2,400 in this account,
say I accidentally trade 3,000 at 40%.
Dang.
Okay, so what does that mean?
Well, now at 3,000 has to be the new profit target,
40% of that has to be 3,000, right?
So 40% of X is 3,000.
3,000 divided by 40% is what, 7250?
Let me do the math there.
Why is this?
Oh, hold on.
Um, dang it, come on.
Um, or sorry, 7,500, 7,500.
Then now your profit target changes to 7,500.
So therefore you have to trade a whole extra day
if you breach the consistency,
which again is one more day
you can possibly fail the whole thing.
So consistency will add days to the profit,
to the time in market.
It'll add that to your journey.
Um, if you, if DLL will limit how much you can make in total,
despite consistency, both of these are designed to keep you from making a lot very fast.
And payout cap is a design to limit how much you can take out.
Despite what your balance is and how you get there, it doesn't matter.
The ultimate takeaway is they can have a payout cap, which limits what you can take out.
It doesn't matter if you stair-stepped up, rocketed up, went sideways, went back in time.
I don't know.
It doesn't matter what you do.
If some of these firms have a payout cap,
congratulations for making 25,000 in profit.
You're allowed to take out $3,000 every five days.
Like trade a five is 3,000 every five days.
It's a payout cap and they're direct to funded.
So you can make all this money by getting there,
but then they throttle how much you can take out again
to entice you to keep trading further.
And ultimately you can blow up the entire thing that's sitting there in reserve.
As you guys remember earlier in the year,
I was trading trade a five straight to fundance.
I was, I had, um, at, um, at that time,
I mean, I'm still trading them at this time,
but at the, at, as I was doing it on YouTube,
you can see that I built $200,000 a buffer between the five accounts
and I'm only taking out money at $3,000 chunks.
They still force you to trade five days.
At that time it was, it was 10 and then it became seven.
Now it's five.
Um, you could trade 10 days, get 3,000, 10 days, get 3,000,
get 10 days, get 3,000, no matter what the balance is.
You only let you take a little bit out.
So these are the things that like, aha,
I thought it was too good to be true.
Well, now you see, it's pretty realistic, right?
You can't just make infinity dollars,
but you can make a pretty healthy return on your investment.
If you're pretty good at this, you know?
Um, so I'm using fund index as an example.
Cause one of the easiest ones to understand the,
there's a bunch of really good firms out there.
And let me talk about why my fund and futures is really good.
Uh, because if we go back to the rules that I wrote,
I'm going to list them for you.
Sorry, I'm going to talk about the free consistency, DLL and cap.
No firm has all three of these gone.
The firm would have complete like risk at the time.
Certain firms like fund and next, which we just showed, um,
fund and next has, um, no cap.
So fund and next has no cap and no DLL.
You have two of the rules gone, which is great.
That's fantastic.
Um, my funded futures has, once you're funded, no, no cap.
I'm sorry.
No DLL, no consistency.
And they have a payout cap, but it's 80,000 bucks.
So for most people, that's pretty much uncapped.
If you haven't taken 80 K out, that's a pretty big target.
It's not like a rinky dink 3000 or 5,000 cap every five days.
It's trade for the full lot, which I think is 14 days right now, 14, 15 days, something
like that.
And you can get 80 K and payout.
But as you see with the higher payout, it's more time in market to get there.
Typically with bigger payout caps, it's more time you have to trade.
There's always a push and pull.
At least we all see this so far that when it comes to these rules, do y'all understand?
It's rock, paper, scissors.
There's really no winning firm, right?
You give one, you take one, you take one, you give one.
And they all like to compete.
Like we're the best, we're the best, we're the best.
But the risk model is the same.
It's rock, paper, scissors.
So it would, no matter what you can say, it's very rare that you're going to find a firm
that's too good to be true right now, but a next is too good to be true.
Like they're working themselves in bankruptcy.
I don't even know because they have no cap, no DLL and the plans are dirt cheap and it's
seven days to pay out.
Uncapped with my funded is like two weeks to pay out.
So it's kind of interesting how some firms decide to take a little risk or not.
Now let me tell you about that.
When firms are taking abnormal amount of risks compared to this, this is where my masterclass
will help you.
This is where you do your due diligence.
Very much investigate these new firms.
All the ones I've mentioned that we work with as of this date, Funded Next, My Funded Futures,
Aletra Funding, Tradeify, Apex, and Take Profit.
These are the ones we work with.
We're all vetted by multiple customers, multiple payouts.
They have a general good reputation in the community.
There's millions of these prop firms out there though.
So when it starts to sound good to be true, you need to go make sure they're actually paying
people off.
Don't ever discount the fact that one of them can be scamming.
We recently had one called Fast Track that went under because they ran out of money because
they took too much risk.
And so when you start to see firms that have two or three of these rules gone with a quick
time and market, be hesitant and make sure you do your research that they don't have
some other weird rule like subjective payouts or they deny payouts and stuff like that.
Any firm that's denying payouts, try to avoid it in general for your own sake.
This is teaching you how to see risk in this stuff.
Now again, with anything in Wall Street, there's always people trying to get people's money.
So this is just a cautionary thing to take.
The ones we work with, we don't have the problems with usually.
But keep in mind, that's what you're looking for.
Now, when do you decide what's a better firm or what's a better one to trade?
Well, that's up to you to decide what you want.
For the most part, you guys, I'm going to tell you the best thing that you can ever do
is time and market.
The quickest path to payout is your biggest handle.
Every day that you trade is a coin flip that you blow the whole thing up, right?
So quicker time and market, the better.
Some of the plans though, like essentially my funded futures has a plan that's like a,
you know, takes two weeks to get your payout.
And another plan they have has five days of payout.
They have both options for you to determine longer time in market for uncap or shorter
time in market for a cap.
And you get to choose which path you want to gamble on.
Do I want to trade for longer for bigger payout or trade for shorter for smaller payout?
It does make sense in a risk sense.
And so firms like my funded give you really good options for you to choose which one.
They have cheap plans and I'll give you some examples of some of those really quick.
Let's not take profit.
My funded.
So my funded, for example, has three different types of plans as a state.
The core, which is cheap for the 50K account, 77 a month.
And the scale is 127 and the pro is 227.
They're more expensive.
The core, you get $1,000 payouts every five days after you pass the eval.
There's a consistency rule on the eval side of 50%, which means two days to pass the eval.
50% is two days to pass and five days to pay out for $1,000 per payout.
That's why it's 77.
The scale plan is much bigger.
It's like $1,500 and then $2,000.
Each time you get a payout, it's slightly bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger.
They scale it up each time for the same five days in market once funded.
And it's slightly more expensive.
Bigger payouts, more expensive, same time frame.
The pro, big, fat, 80% of $100,000, I think is the most expensive one, but longer time
in market.
So some firms like my fund, it'd give you a pretty easy, the rules are the same as you
see the X's and checks of what they do and a half are pretty much identical.
The only difference is you pay more for different payout structure.
And that's really where the trend is going.
And then of course, when you're shopping around, you're going to see all these rules written
on these websites just in this particular way.
Time and market.
It's not necessarily stated in here what time and market is.
You usually have to go read the FAQs to start to see like payout rules and they'll tell you
payout rules.
I'll just pull up another one as an example.
Let's go to here.
Every prop firm is going to have a sort of like help center.
They're going to be very similar at the top.
And you can say like, okay, payouts.
Here we go.
There's a payout section.
Understanding payout requirements.
There you go.
Perfect.
Here's the payout policy.
Let's go there.
You can have a total of five accounts total and 20% consistency.
There's that rule.
Okay.
So that's five days to payout.
Perfect.
And then you can see if there's any more windows or rules or whatever.
Unless it specifically says you need to trade a certain amount of days.
The consistency will tell you the number of days.
So this one doesn't necessarily say the number of days.
I don't see it.
So it's five.
And we all know it's five.
And each one of these firms, you can kind of do the same thing with, you know,
Elite Trader Funding.
He's got a cool website.
And then they tell you minimum days to pass the eval side.
Perfect.
Five days for this plan.
Diamond hands, five days, five days, five days, et cetera.
And you can click show more.
And it tells you once you're funded, eight days to payout, eight days to payout,
eight days to payout, et cetera.
You can see this all across the board, right?
And so you get your time and market listed here.
You get your consistency listed here.
You get your daily loss limit listed here, right?
And caps, right?
What are your payouts?
Maybe they list their caps.
They're not here.
A maximum withdrawal.
There's your cap, right?
So this structure is very common in all crop firms.
And when you're shopping around, it really comes down to what's the most important.
And as I said, for most of you, time and market's probably one of the better things to look at.
The quicker, the better.
Now, competition has recently brought most of these to have seven to eight-day payout windows now.
That's pretty much where competition has landed.
Some of them, like Tradeify, Straight Defunded, now went to five.
And Funded Next has gone down to four.
Now, I think that five and four is about the lower limit you're going to get.
But for time and market, you really can't beat Funded Next rapid as the day of this video.
Again, this might be dated by the time you watch the video, but time and market's a big deal.
Now, for all of this, what you're really looking for is for the price you pay,
because you're going to set a budget, the price you pay, what has the rules that you want?
Now, what I hate the most is DLL.
This is my least favorite rule of all of them.
DLL, I hate because you know me.
I trade every single time.
We talk about that.
If I have a liquidity pocket, I'm going to trade over and over and over and over again.
What happens if I have a day where the pocket fails once, fails twice, and fails three times,
and then wins and wins and wins and goes, right?
If I don't plan it right, DLL can stop me out of the trade,
and I can't attack it eight or nine times like I normally do.
I can't use my blind monkey strats to go in my favor to keep attacking it every time.
Once I lose a certain amount, I'm out of the game for the day, and I hate that.
So when I trade, I personally don't like DLL.
That's a Matt thing, though.
Now, you decide what you don't like.
Consistency forces you to trade consistent, the same size every day, and that may be too
hard for you.
Trade a five straight to funded, 20% consistency, and top step was like 50% on the eval, right,
side, and then fund the next 40%.
40% is three days to payout.
Consistency affects your time in market.
Sometimes time in market, they'll give you like, you have to trade five days no matter
what, despite the consistency.
Funded Next, for example, has a five days of trading to payout despite the consistency.
So for the legacy, for example, you have to trade five days, and then you can request
five calendar days no matter what your profit is.
You still got to make it to five days.
So some of them, days are throttled by the lesser of these two, right?
Or actually, I guess the greater of these two.
Consistency can put you over the time in market.
You may make it to day five, but consistency makes you trade two more days.
So these two together affect your time in market.
I'm a very good trader, and I'm a very talented trader, and I do very well over time.
I'm a person that over time, I make money.
So therefore, for me, you can understand, everybody, why time is not an enemy of mine.
Do we all understand that?
Yes, no?
Somebody like me who makes money over time, over long periods of time?
Three or four extra days in the market doesn't really have a high loss rate towards me because
I am consistent, and I go.
DLL doesn't let me scale the way I want to and kicks me out too early.
That's why I don't like it.
Those of you who may not be at your goals yet, you know, time is probably your enemy.
You want to get a payout as quick as you can before you blow up.
Then you want to squeeze out a payout with a low time in market, high consistency.
You could care less about the DLL or the cap.
Payout cap is not really going to be a big deciding factor for most people, but like
for example, with MyFundedFutures, they have Core and Scale, which both have caps, and Pro,
which kind of has a big fat cap.
It's almost somewhat uncapped in a way.
You may choose between products once you've selected a firm that has the rules based on,
okay, do I want to pay more for a bigger cap or not?
Funded Next has a Rapid plan, which takes smaller tiered payouts in four days versus
the seven-day payout of Infinity, basically uncapped, the Legacy.
Legacy will cost more.
So again, Rapids cost half as much as the Legacy's because you get uncapped payout.
This is just going to affect the final price.
Not really your trading rules.
These are mostly your trading rules.
So when I'm shopping around, I want to make sure it has the trading rules I have for the
price I want to pay.
Now it comes down to the next thing, the price you want to pay.
How much do you pay?
And this is going to be lesson one, and that's it.
We're going to get to the end of this, and that's it.
Payment.
When you're trading props, just like when you're trading, you have income to apply to this.
You're going to set a budget.
You don't go to the casino and just say, well, I'm just going to gamble.
Whatever.
I'm going to keep going.
If I lose money, I'm going to get some more.
You're going to basically gamble yourself into a hole and then mortgage your house and
then run out of money and then put yourself in the poor house if you don't think it through.
Now, let me tell you a proper way to trade.
Say that you make, I don't know, $12,000 a month after tax.
I'm just making up a number after taxes.
And you have $8,000 a month in bills.
Okay.
And then you've got $4,000 left over.
Of that $4,000, you and your spouse agree that you're going to be allowed to chase your dreams
and practice trading, but you're only going to be allowed to spend $2,000 a month because
that's what you guys agreed to.
Out the door, this is the first thing you do before you go to any of these websites.
You guys got it?
Y'all are going to learn how to balance a checkbook because if you can't do this, if
you can't manage money, you can't trade because you know what trading is?
Managing money.
Okay.
So do this.
Trading is the art form of managing money under stress in a random environment you can't
control.
So we're going to start by controlling some of it.
I have a budget.
This is my B, $2,000 a month.
Same thing.
If trainer funding programs weren't around, I would take $2,000 and put it in a trading
account and trade micros and then practice trading that oh shit moment.
I'm about to blow up the account with that and gain my education this way.
But instead, $2,000 allows me to trade this much money per month within budget.
If I lose it all, my family still gets to eat.
Great.
If I lose it all, the wife is still happy because we agreed on this.
Make sure that this budget is something that everybody who relies on you to provide agrees
with.
Do you all agree with me now so far in this class?
Trading is the easiest way to lose everything you own and I'm not just talking money.
It's house and it's to lose everyone you love because you're a gambling addict and you can't
freaking control yourself.
Okay.
You're going to set a budget because Matt told you set a budget and everyone's going to agree
that way when you're trading, you don't get a partner aggro or they come up on you and
they're mad at you because you're not providing.
You're like, but you keep losing money and, uh, you know, and they just start their opinion
of you sort of like goes down over time because you're not producing up front.
You're going to tell your partner, whoever relies on you, Hey, I'm committing to this
for like two years of my life.
Why?
Because I want a better life for you guys.
And I think I can do it.
I've budgeted it to where it won't affect their cost of living.
I'm going to be stressed out for a while.
I'm going to be doing extra work for a while.
I'm not gonna be available, but I'm investing in my future.
I hope you're all okay with this.
And you get everyone in your family to sign off on it.
That way you don't get the aggro where people are like, their opinion of you is making is
worse and worse.
You know why?
Because your trading is going to get worse and worse.
That pressure is going to start to add up.
So out the door, you get rid of all of that.
You get a budget.
Everybody to sign off and you tell them the amount of time usually takes two to five years
to be a good trader.
I'm going to do it in my spare time.
I'm still going to take you out on dates, honey.
I'm still going to play at the kids.
I'm still going to visit our parents or, you know, your parents, my parents, but I'm going
to do some extra work because I see a better future for myself.
You guys got it?
Make a budget, make a plan, and then trade aggro free with nobody breathing down your neck.
Like, where's the money from this?
You say, I'm going to spend $2,000 a month for two years.
What are you going to get out of it?
And you say, probably nothing but an education.
But that's about what our budget is.
And that's the same as a tuition.
And there's no college degree for day trading.
I'm going to learn it this way and spend a little bit per month.
And that's like a tuition.
And assume that what's the budget for?
Paying for tuition.
It's all gone.
And your partner's like, are you going to make any money out of this?
Like, hopefully at the end of the day.
But think of it like college.
Four years of paying for something to get a job at the end.
It's just like going to school.
And now people will take you seriously, will they?
What do people normally say when you're like, I want to go be a day trader?
What do they do when you say that?
How do they look at you?
Tell me in chat.
What's everybody's first impression when you're like, hey, I'm going to be a day trader?
They think you're dumb.
They think you're a gambler.
They think you're a joke.
They don't take it seriously.
So nobody will take it seriously unless you take it seriously and you present it like
the opportunity that is.
This is an educational budget to learn something.
And after two years, if I'm not doing well or I'm not improving, I'll quit and I'll know
that I'm not doing well.
But I'm going to take it seriously.
I'm going to budget it.
And this is your budgeting plan.
I get $2,000 a month to spend and that's it.
So here's some rules of thumb with your budgeting plan.
Let's go choose.
Again, I'm going to use FundedX as an example because it's one that I'm very familiar with.
Okay.
I'm going to say $249.
Let's run that up to $250.
Let's say that this is the plan that meets all your criteria.
That's the one I trade.
That's why I keep using it.
It's no DLL.
It's my favorite.
Again, that's just me.
$250.
Okay.
So these things cost me $250.
And let's just say that I want to only trade one at a time.
And you could trade multiple at a time.
You can buy many of them at once.
But at $250, now this budget tells you how many you can buy, right?
That's eight.
You get eight of those accounts total.
Per month to blow up.
I buy eight.
I spend $2,000.
Now, if I want to spread that risk out over the course of the month, a trading month has 20 days, right?
And then so how can I make those eight accounts stretch over 20 days?
Well, if I pretend or I make a limit of if I just lose the account trading, I want to stretch the eight accounts as much as I can.
Then each account needs to last 2.5 days, right?
That's how eight days stretches to 20.
So let's just round this up to be more conservative.
Each account needs to last three days, okay?
Three days to blow up.
And that'll put me under budget, right?
So actually, I'll actually have seven accounts in three days.
But let's just keep it simple.
Three days.
I trade an account and I plan to blow up in three days.
So with that example, how do I set my limits there?
Well, if you look back at the website, you see that they have a maximum loss limit of $3,000 total, right?
So the math there is simple.
To make the eight accounts last the entire month, trading 20 trading days, I have to make this account last three days.
So every day, if I lose $3,000, I've lost the game.
And that way, the three days has anchored my loss to be $1,000 a day.
I've set my own loss limit at $1,000 a day total.
Simple as that.
So now I have a trade plan.
Hey, honey, I'm going to spend $2,000.
I'm going to buy eight accounts.
I'm going to plan to blow up three days.
If I do better, then I don't spend the whole $2,000.
If I do exactly as bad as I can, lose every day, every day, every day to max, I only spend $2,000.
So this is set $1,000 per day to meet all the criteria.
Do you all understand the math there?
That's pretty easy to think.
I can lose $1,000 a day over three.
And there's the $3,000.
And then I'm in budget.
I never spent more than $2,000 a month.
That's the whole point of this.
All right.
So now I can set some parameters.
And again, in the Discord, there is a link to the spreadsheet, which allows you to program
some of these parameters in that helps you with position sizing.
We talked about that.
But you can utilize some of this spreadsheet to start to do some of these calculations to
make it simple for you.
And that's kind of helpful.
And then I'm going to start building this out a little further.
But I'm going to have a tab for each different type of account, which we'll talk about a
little bit as well, to go with it to help you calculate how many days to blow up and how
many trades per day, et cetera, to really micromanage your finances with this.
So the idea is it's just making sure that you're not gambling outside of control.
Once you start losing more money than you've planned to lose, and you've psychologically anchored
yourself to lose, you start to trade worse because you're outside of your budget.
If you're trading along this plan, you're never going to feel bad because you already
assumed it's going to be gone and you're comfortable with it.
So, so far, we understand this, right?
This is something you're comfortable with losing.
And when you lose it all and tell yourself, I'm going to lose it all, you're like, that's
cool.
I expected it.
You're never surprised.
You don't walk in Monday feeling panicked or rushed.
You're within target, okay?
This is very important in your trading education to do this.
This will keep your emotions in check.
You won't be stupid as you're losing.
You're losing on pace, which is what you assumed, okay?
So with that particular example, eight accounts, $3,000 of loss means that I can lose $1,000
a day, which is how you determine how much you're going to allow yourself to lose per day
to keep yourself under budget.
If you lose any more than that $1,000 a day, you're going to burn these faster.
So set your limit and that'll keep you in check.
Another thing that you can do is, and again, my rule of thumb is I give myself usually three
days to blow up anyways.
That's kind of, if I don't have any kind of limits or anything, I give myself three days
as a general rule of thumb.
Three days to blow up usually, and then two trades per day.
So how many trades is this?
Well, you know, we taught you guys, you know, maybe I'll long into hedge pressure or something
and maybe make a trade, maybe take a stop, okay?
That's one trade.
My 10-point S&P, 40-point NASDAQ, that's my loss.
$500 a contract S&P on a normal non-volatile day.
$800 a contract NASDAQ.
And my budget is if I'm losing $1,000 per day, I give myself three days to blow up and
I give myself two trades per day.
Why two trades per day?
Well, because a lot of my setups are 80%, 90% are ideal conditions.
So it's very rare they're going to fail twice.
It happens, happens fairly often, but it's rarer than not happening.
More often than not, I'm going to need a second trade to take a stab at it.
We hit liquidity pocket, then it falls through.
We bounce on liquidity pocket again, and then it rolls.
I lost, then I won.
I need to give myself a second trade to win.
I can't just lose $1,000 in a single gulp.
You can choose how many trades you want to do.
You can make it three.
You can make it five.
I'm more aggressive and I have more money to spend, so I'm going to be more aggressive.
I'm going to give myself two.
And if I blow up faster, I blow up faster.
I don't care.
You may not have that mentality.
It's up to you to decide.
My rule of thumb is three days to pass, two trades per day.
So the $1,000 means I've lost $500 per trade, right?
So with S&P, that's great.
That lines up exactly.
Now that sets my contract size.
If I'm losing $500 per trade, then my contract size is one contract.
One E-mini S&P is $500 per trade on loss.
Perfect.
And non-volatile environment.
Remember your volatility class.
You're going to adjust how much stop loss you're going to have based on volatility.
The biggest one-minute candle.
You guys remember all that?
So that might adjust your position size to make it smaller when it's volatile.
At $500, for NASDAQ being $800 per mini, you're going to have to trade.
This is what?
1.6.
So one of the three is five eights, right?
So five eights of a NASDAQ.
That's the math there, I think.
So that's roughly what?
Like five, six micros, right?
We'll put you on your budget as well.
I'll do the math for you really quick.
That's about six microns.
6.25 micros.
Six micros as you lose, 6.25 times eight is your 500.
So that's how you do that.
Now I have position sizes per trade.
I've taken my budget that my family agreed to and all the balancing act, the commotional check, everything.
And I've turned this and I've chosen the prop firm I like based on the parameters and all this stuff.
And one other thing I'll discuss in a second.
I've chosen the prop firm.
I've chosen the account.
I have the budget.
I've worked it out.
Now I've got my position size.
Then I got a rocket scooter.
Then I'm ready to go.
Now I'm ready to do this.
You've just made a business plan.
You didn't even know it.
Prop for masterclass.
We're going to cover a lot of stuff in this.
But the first part of it is a business plan.
And we're all on the same page here, right?
If you haven't thought this much about your trading, this is why you're not doing that well.
I think about this constantly.
Like when I'm streaming, I might be twiddling my thumbs.
I might be singing songs, goofing off.
My brain's never not aware of where I'm at with all of this, right?
And you got to make sure you're doing this as well.
Everybody's happy in this equation, which is why I ended this math with a smiley face.
Your wife or husband is happy or are happy.
Your kids are happy.
Your family's happy.
People are still eating.
You're not gambling their money away.
You're in perfect control.
So even when you lose, you don't give a crap because you expected that's the normal loss.
$500 a trade?
Well, that's why you assume to lose.
You're not feeling the burn.
Now, the burn you might feel over time is that after a year or so, your family might
get impatient of you not making progress.
But your job is like anybody in student.
If you were married in college and you're trying to go through medical school or something,
it's like you have to say, you know, this is for the greater good.
We agreed to this time and this is what we're doing.
So hopefully you don't feel that pressure as time goes by.
Or else the smiley face turns to a frown.
So keep your family in check.
Keep your budget in check.
Keep your expenses in check.
And use this entire thing to decide what your position size is.
And then everyone will be happy, including you.
Now, one final thing before I close out this class is the three different account types.
You see some of them down here.
There's static, end of the day drawdown, and trailing drawdown.
These are the different flavors of the accounts.
And again, they're going to affect the price.
It's static, trailing.
Actually, let me do this really good.
Let me do it like this.
Trailing, drawdown.
So the drawdown type.
And this is the hardest part to understand, especially if you're new to trader funding programs.
There's trailing, there's end of the day drawdown, and there's static.
So whenever you're researching like which firms you want to try, they're all different.
They all have different types of rules and the whole rock, paper, scissors.
But they also have these three things.
It's the drawdown type.
And just like, you know, you can click on any of the ones.
Let's pull up, take profit.
You can go down to the bottom.
And it will tell you usually the drawdown type in here as well.
Actually, it's probably here.
Here's your, again, there's your daily loss limit, none.
Consistency rule, yes.
Drawdown type, end of the day.
See how it says end of the day, intraday, end of the day.
So this is also important to understand.
Another thing that I didn't mention earlier, which may factor in to your tiebreaking of which
firm to go with is going to be a profit split.
As you see, when you're paid out at a take profit in the pro, they're going to take 20%
of your profit from you.
And when you're pro plus, they'll take 10%.
When you have two equal choices with equal price, profit split is a great tiebreaker.
Firms like MyFundedFutures, 80-20.
Take profit, 80-20.
When you go live, it's 90-10.
Usually live programs are much better, like 90-10.
Tradeify, straight to funded, 90-10.
Funded next, 100-0.
They don't take anything from you.
So when you're comparing, you're going to look at that as well.
Usually a higher profit split is a cheaper account as well.
Up to you to decide how important that is to you.
Now, drawdown is your biggest decision we haven't talked about yet, which is the account
type and how you trade it.
This is massive.
There's a massive difference between them.
You're going to trade them completely differently.
In this masterclass, we'll go through how to master trailings, how to master end of the
days, and how to master static.
Now, you guys watch me on my stream.
Currently, at this moment in time, I'm trading Tradeify straight to funded, which is end of
the day.
I'm trading Funded Next Legacy, end of the day.
I'm also trading MyFundedFutures live account, end of the day.
That's it.
Now, let's talk about them.
Remember that rule when I said drawdown maximum loss limit of $3,000?
How this $3,000 is applied is the drawdown type.
Let's put the word type here.
$3,000.
Trailing, or static, let's start there.
It's easy to understand.
Static, you start at zero, okay?
And if you lose $3,000, you're out.
So if your balance ever goes to minus $3,000, you've blown up.
And so no matter what you do, as long as you stay above this line, you're still in the
game.
Okay, now you blew up.
Trailing has this weird effect that it's intraday trailing.
So you start at zero, and you're down $3,000, then you've lost.
But the intraday trailing is interesting because what happens is as you're making money, this
target moves with you.
It's $3,000 off the high at any given point.
So like it gets higher and higher and higher, you go higher and higher, and then you fall
to here.
You're still greater than zero.
You've still made money in the account, but you've breached the account because you trailed
$3,000.
You're not allowed to fall any more than your trailing amount.
You have to basically stay above that amount that's always trailing you.
So like, that kind of sucks, right?
Why would you choose this one over that one?
Well, this one usually costs two to three times as much as that one, and that's why.
You'll pay a lot less for that extra headache.
And that's up to you to decide what the cost is.
The cost of a good trailing drawdown, usually the firms that have trailing drawdowns are going
to be firms that are like, you know, $100 to $200 accounts, but have 90% off sales.
Apex has one.
ETF has their one step and their fast track, which are all trailing.
And the trailing drawdown goes with it.
But you can pick up those accounts for basically nothing price, $10 to $15 per account when they
have a sale.
And then once you finally pass and you pay a big activation fee, and then you pay your
quote unquote, $200 total.
Most of these accounts are going to cost $100 to $200 a piece, no matter how they frame
it.
So trailing drawdowns, again, your 90% off sales are very common.
Statics usually don't go on really big sales.
And when they do, they're great.
Static, lead trader funding, as of today, has the best static account in the business.
There's not even a close second place.
Static account, they give you a big, fat buffer to play with that doesn't move.
Now, comparing different static accounts, Apex has one that has about $625.
$5 a buffer.
Statics characteristically have smaller drawdowns as well.
They don't give you a lot of room to play because they want to bust you.
So normally, comparing similar price, an end of the day drawdown of $3,000, a similarly
priced static might only have $625 a drawdown.
It's a tighter limit, but it doesn't move.
See, it's again, rock, paper, scissors, push and pull.
ETF is very cheap and very fat.
That's why I recommend if you like static.
Static is the easiest account to pass, all things being equal, okay?
Trailing is the hardest to pass because here you blow up even if you make money the wrong
way and it trails off the high.
So example is you have an account and all of a sudden news happens and you made $10,000
and then it pulled back a little bit and then you lost $3,000 of that $10,000.
You're still up $7,000.
Guess what?
You blew up the account.
It goes off of the high.
It's unrealized trail.
So that's making it hard, but these accounts are dirt cheap.
So you get the option to choose where you want to go.
If you're having a hard time passing, I tell you guys left and right, nobody pays me to say
this.
I'm telling you from my heart, static, pay the extra money, do the statics.
That's the easiest way to get a payout.
It's just more expensive.
So I'm going to put $3 signs for cost.
They're usually the most expensive, but this is a huge headache for most people.
Normally, you just have a nice buffer and you're good.
Now, trailing does give you a buffer at some point.
Normally, once you get past a certain point, usually make your initial drawdown and profit
$3,000, then your trail becomes static, which is good.
A lot of the firms don't trail forever.
They trail to a certain point above zero and then they become static.
So with trailing drawdown, you're basically like cheaper for that initial hurdle and then
you earn a static through your trading.
Like you basically converts it once you hit a buffer.
This example of this account, as soon as I make what my loss limit is in profit, then
the account stays static here.
So most trailings are only trailing for a little bit.
Do we all understand this so far?
You earn a static.
It becomes static at some point, which is what you want.
You don't want it to move.
It's easier once it fixes.
Okay.
So hardest, but cheapest, easiest, but most expensive.
If you're trying to get your first payout for confidence boost or just return on investment,
this is the easiest path to pay out.
All things being equal.
If you compare all things and they're all equal, this is easier than this.
End of the day drawdown is interesting because it's a hybrid of the two.
End of the day drawdown is a fixed static drawdown.
Same, same, use the same example here.
That stays like a static.
And no matter what you do throughout the day, it stays the same.
And at the end of the day, it's recalculated for the next day.
And then it stair steps up to where it's $3,000 off of the close every time.
It's always $3,000 off of the close, no matter what the day is.
So it doesn't trail intraday, but it trails once a day in a stair step.
So while your drawdown on a trailing is going to look like this over time,
it's going to be trailing with you and then stop.
Static is going to be fixed forever.
End of the day is going to stair step before it becomes a static.
So all of these are going to dictate different trading styles.
And we're going to have each class that we're going to have on these
are going to tell you which trading style is best for each one.
Now, Matt, me personally, at the end of the day, is why I like to trade those.
Statics are perfect, but you don't have a lot of them out there.
And of course, a lot of times, because of the simplicity of the static,
they're more expensive and usually have payout caps.
End of the day, being kind of in the middle, it's mostly a static.
And the drawdown doesn't trail intraday, which is good, which I hate.
And usually, these end-of-the-day accounts have better payout rules
because it's riskier for you because the drawdown trails, riskier for the firm.
If it doesn't trail, static is the riskiest one.
It's going to cost the most.
End of the day, being in the middle of the two, is the moderately priced one.
It's one priced in the middle, but it has the best of both worlds.
Pretty much static throughout the day and cheaper than a static.
Perfect, perfect, that's all I need.
Cost-effective, static is short of an account.
So, that's how I, right.
Somebody said, if you lost $1,500, the next day you would have $1,500 left.
Correct, right.
It trails off, it doesn't ever, they never give you more of it back.
It always just trails up with you and doesn't stop.
Good question, yeah.
So, this is correct.
You wish they give some of that.
If you lost money, you wish they would give you more of that back, huh?
Wouldn't that be great?
Unfortunately, no.
All right.
So, when you're trading between the three, trailing is like one of the more attractive
ones for a lot of people because it's cheap and you may not have thousands to commit a
month.
You may only have a couple hundred to commit a month.
An ETF has a 90% off sale and you can get the account for $20 or less.
That might be well within your budget.
You may be younger, may not have an income, whatever the case may be.
Trailing may be all you can do because of the financial limits.
Static sounds easy, right?
But you may not have the money to afford it.
End of the day is usually right in the middle and current competition has brought end of
the day drawdown accounts to be very affordable, as I've shown.
You know, end of the day drawdown, rapid account is less than 100 bucks.
Legacy is 79 bucks.
So, they're becoming very cheap compared to the trailing drawdown, which is, you know,
$200 at 90% off and then becomes 20 bucks.
Clearly, that's much cheaper than this, but they're all getting close to being like less
than the 200 bucks each.
So, competition is really start to bring platform prices down a whole lot.
But you're kind of splitting hairs, comparing prices.
On average, you know, relatively speaking, if an end of the day drawdown is 100 bucks,
your trailing drawdown when there's a 90% off sale will be like 10, and your static will
be like 200.
That's about the rough, you know, estimate of the prices.
One of them is one-tenth, one of them is double.
And you'll start to see that trend as kind of normal as well.
So, you'll probably pay like twice as much for a static as you would at the end of the
day, all things being equal.
As a couple other things, somebody mentioned in chat, there's a couple other things to
consider when choosing a prop firm is, is the fee monthly or one time?
Some of these firms might say you pay $79 or $80 a month to trade them, which means if
you hold on to that account, it takes you more than a month to get to your target.
They charge you a fee every month.
Some of them are monthly fees, like top step.
And this is a very archaic model to have monthly fees.
Not a lot of people do that anymore, but some of them still do.
As I keep bringing fun to the next step, they have no monthly fee.
Whatever you see $80 is a fixed price, no matter what.
Another thing is once you pass the eval side and go to funded, sometimes it's called an
activation fee.
Remember, there's all kind of little gimmicks they do to lower their risk.
Activation fee plus monthly fee is the actual cost of the account.
Apex is a good example of hiding the real costs of their plan.
Let me bring it up and show you.
Here's Apex Trader Funding.
And you may see this advertised, right?
Okay, let's talk about, let's do an example.
$100,000, $300 a month.
Let's just put this down.
$100,000 for $300 a month, right?
And they have a 90% off sale.
Okay, so 90% off of that, that's great.
When they have it, 90% off, makes the account $30.
Perfect.
I'm paying $30 for this.
Well, if you go in there and I forget what Apex's current activation fee is, somebody
in chat might be able to tell me I haven't touched them in a very long time, but I think
it's like $125 or something, right?
Can you guys tell me what their current fee is, $100 and something?
Am I right?
Something like that.
It says click here.
Oh, click here.
There we go.
That's the one.
Ah, here it is.
Okay, cool.
So here's the fee for activation.
So that $300 account that we looked at is a $220 activation fee.
So in reality, you just paid $250 for that account.
It's only $30 for the evals.
So the evals are dirt cheap, but once you pass, you got to fork up the money for the funded,
right?
So you're paying the full amount.
Yeah, so again, keep in mind that activation fee is another portion of your account.
You want to add up fee for eval plus activation fee once you pass.
Apex has an activation fee.
ETF has an activation fee, et cetera.
Some of the firms don't have activation fees.
Some of the plans are like, and we'll talk about the different plans, static, end of the
day, draw it on, et cetera.
Some of them are structured different, but a next also has no activation fee.
So some of them will also say no activation fee on there, and it's a fixed price.
That's why I trade these guys because, again, not trying to sway you one way or the other.
They're all different.
Personally, for me, it has the plan I want, uncapped payout, and there's no activation
fee.
Once you pass, you just move straight over.
It's pretty simple at that point.
Whereas, you know, you might go on social media and, you know, the top step folks might
be like, you know, we're the best out there.
Our plans are the cheapest, but then you go, wait, well, what's your activation fee though?
Oh, when you add that up, it's not really that cheap.
So in reality, they call this all-in cost.
You'll hear traders and influencers say all-in cost.
All-in cost means your total fee, including activation fee, and sometimes data is going to cost you
as well, but that's usually universal between all the firms.
Now, with that being said, these are pretty much all the parameters you need to know when
choosing a firm.
It doesn't matter where you go, you're going to see pretty much the same parameters anywhere,
depending on what the account type.
And now you know, now you can shop for prop firms side by side and really just have like
an easy way of understanding what's going on.
Aha, here is a, I'm just going to choose something random, Tradify growth account.
Okay, it is a end-of-the-day drawdown, great, the stair step I love.
It is one day to pass the eval, great.
It has an activation fee, none.
Oh, that's cool, no activation fee, I like that.
Has a trailing end-of-the-day drawdown, a stair step of 2,000, perfect.
Daily loss limit, Matt hates daily loss limit, that's why I don't trade that.
I actually trade the Lightning Fundance, which also has DLL, but eh, you know, not my favorite,
but I still love the DLLs, I still love the Lightning Funded account.
This is your max contracts you can do, this is your profit target, this is your end-of-the-day drawdown,
you lose this, you're done, and that's it with your daily loss limit.
So all the parameters there, you can read this like a book, now you're an expert at reading this.
Lightning Funded is cool, and ETF has a direct-to-funded as well, they call it a direct-to-funded,
this is called straight-to-funded.
It's an account that doesn't have an eval.
This is the last part to say, some firms, actually like when it all started, all firms
have what we call the eval phase, which is just sim trading, as I talked about that earlier
graph, then you pass, then you go sim-funded, right?
And then you get your sim-funded payouts, and then at some point you go live.
Live is real money, this is sim money, but you get paid real money for sim.
New products have emerged in the last couple years that have removed the eval altogether.
Now remember, eval is time and market, you know, two to three extra days of trading,
and then you go to the funded, right?
Two or three days of trading, maybe five days unfunded to get payout.
But Tradeify combined the two and straight to funded, where all of it's combined into one.
It used to be 10 days to payout, and then it was changed to seven, and now it's five.
Straight to funded is you skip the eval altogether.
You're immediately funded when you start, and now you're just trading to get your payout.
As you see, they're somewhat expensive to get rid of the eval, and that goes with the
same trend I drew earlier.
Higher time and market, lower price.
Lower time and market, higher price.
So again, it's still the paper, rock, scissors thing.
This is what you see me trading on stream as of this point in time.
Straight to funded account.
I'm currently in the middle of a challenge to get to my destination of like trying to
go live with these guys.
It's a great, well-rounded account.
The eval is a whole different thing you can consider straight to funded programs.
And what makes eval, straight to funded great, is when you get rid of the eval, you get rid
of that psychological barrier step, and you get rid of the activation fee, because there's
no activation.
You're activated from day one.
So it's actually built into the price.
Usually when you're doing like, you know, past the eval, it's like two or three days of
struggling.
Phew, I finally passed.
And then you get the live account, and then you're nervous because you're like, okay, now
I'm live.
This is real now.
I'm live.
Okay, what?
I got to make a trade, make some money.
And then you kind of get nervous, right?
You fidget or you fudge it because you're nervous because none of this counted, and finally
the pressure's on.
So if you get rid of the, there's like a psychological barrier that you have to get over to go funded.
Pass the eval.
Say if you like, go to eval, blow up.
Go to eval, blow up.
Go to eval, blow up.
Go to eval, finally pass.
Okay, phew.
Pressure's on.
All of those past blowups are going to be in your head when you finally start trading
live.
So straight to funded, you're paying a little extra money to get rid of the eval, and you're
really removing that huge psychological barrier, not only reducing your time in market, but
actually removing that, okay, finally I passed the eval.
Let's get it going.
This is real now.
This, you're just real out the door.
Pressure's off.
That's why I like these guys.
Okay, so going through a few more examples.
You're not going to be an expert at reading this.
Okay.
Take profit.
Okay.
End of the day drawdown on the eval side.
This is the SIM funded side.
This is the live side.
They all call them different things, but it's all the same.
End of the day.
Oh, it goes to intraday once you get funded.
Ugh.
I don't like that.
But then it goes end of the day once live.
So you got to be like, okay, but anyways, take profit.
I didn't say, ugh, because it's bad.
This is actually one of the most popular prop firms in the world.
And this is a great, great prop firm, by the way.
It has that hard step in the middle, but it also, like I said, after a certain amount
of point, does turn into a static, which is good.
This is a prop firm that gives daily payouts every day.
And it is one of our most used codes out there.
And people love it.
It's one of the best ones.
But just teaching you how to guys to read it.
You can say, okay, is there a daily loss limit?
Looks like there's none in any of the steps.
Is there consistency?
Yes, none and none.
Okay, well, how much?
I'll just pull my mouse over here and say, well, 50% off.
Cool.
Two days to pass the eval and no consistency when funded.
That's why people like this.
No consistency when funded is kind of nice.
You can basically YOLO your trade in a single day with the trailing drawdown.
So while this sucks, that's amazing.
And now you can see how the balancing act is there.
I hate that it trails, but man, I love gambling on news and I like getting it all in a single
bite.
Perfect.
You might blow up more, but you can scale much better.
Right.
Remember, it's all rock, paper, scissors.
It's all about personal taste.
That's why people like these.
You can trade these mofos pretty big with no consistency once funded.
Right.
And you have all, again, all the rules.
Everything you want is all here.
You know, withdrawals.
You can take withdrawals from day one.
That's what people like.
So that's why they like this firm.
And with that being said, now you've learned how to read all of them.
ETF has a bunch of different rules.
They have a static.
They have an end of the day.
They have a trailing drawdown.
They're just named different things.
This is a trailing drawdown.
If you read this, this is a trailing drawdown just with the clock.
It's cheaper than this one, but you have to pass it within a certain amount of days.
And so they speed you up, speed you through it for cheaper.
This is like a swing trading plan.
It's print.
And you can read all the parameters there.
Like I said, you just get used to reading all these and, you know, rapid fund and next.
You have to make $3,000.
You can lose $2,000 if you're wrong.
No daily loss limit.
40% consistency.
It doesn't say on here.
Oh, yeah, it does.
End of the day drawdown.
Loss limit.
So as you see, now that you guys have learned how to read them, they're all pretty much the same.
You're going to go out there and compare parameters.
Now, some of the parameters that are useful are cost.
For example, like if something costs $100 for two days versus $150 for two days, this one is clearly better cost per day.
And you can do the fraction every month.
This is $50.
This one is $75, right?
The lower, the better.
So the cost you pay per day is that you're trading.
Another parameter, all things being equal, again, comparing cost per day, time and market.
If that's equal, the other thing you want to compare is cost or drawdown to cost.
So in reality, when you have a prop firm, they say like, here's $100K account, $50K account, $50K account.
It's all SIM.
That's not really the balance.
If you have an account where your maximum loss limit is $2,500, then it's a $2,500 account.
That's really what you're playing with.
$2,500, and when you lose it and you're at zero, the account is dead.
Forget that it says you have a million-dollar account or a billion-dollar account with a $2,500.
So no matter how many zeros and ones you put above that, if you lose $2,500, you blow up.
So in reality, the difference is $2,500.
In any prop account, in SIM account, your maximum loss limit, your MLL, is your account size.
So what you want to compare is your account size per cost.
So in this example, $2,500 on a rapid compared to the other rapid.
Let's actually do the legacies together.
Let me compare which one of these three accounts I want to trade with.
Okay.
This is $3,000 for $250, right?
For $250.
And this is $25 for $150 and $1,250 for $80.
So we can do a quickie little thing, $250, $160, and $80, okay?
$250, $160, and $80.
And I can do my actual drawdowns from that, which are $3,25, and $12,500.
Oops.
Okay.
And if I do the ratio of the three, I can see that...
Oops.
Oops.
Wait, oh.
Yeah.
As you see, 12, 15, these are the same, right?
12, 15.65, 15.625.
So this is a 12.
This is a 15.625, and this is a 15.625.
End of the day drawdown accounts, anything above nine is great.
Anything above 10 is off the charts.
And actually, FundedX just changed their plans, and these are all 12s and 15s.
You get so much drawdown for price.
It's crazy.
My Funded Futures is probably the next best one in the ones we work with that I've mentioned
on drawdown to price.
They're roughly like 10, slightly like 10 plus, around the 10 range.
And they were best in class until FundedX changed their prices.
So the cost of drawdown or drawdown to cost is you get a lot of account for what you pay.
All things being equal.
So currently, the end of the day world, my Funded Futures and FundedX are like tied for
the kings of the castle there.
There's nothing at the end of the day that comes close as far as value goes.
All right.
So when you're comparing the two, for some reason, this one is the best value.
Well, both of these are the best value.
They're better than this one.
And you can see that for an extra $100, you only get $500 extra of account size.
That doesn't scale too well.
But here, for an extra $80, you get double.
Right?
100, you get very little.
80, you get a whole lot.
So you can see how these are really great on the ratio.
Now, as a matter of fact, the legacy 50K is widely considered right now, as of September
2025, the best end of the day drawdown account in the business, as far as value goes, all
things being equal.
So that being said, your cost and time and market analysis or your loss limit analysis
is going to give you a lot of information on which firm to pick and which one's good
for you.
And again, you're going to try to put this circling all the way back down to the beginning
with what your budget is.
Right?
Whatever your budget is going to allow, find a price, find a drawdown type that you like,
find rules that you like, and make sure everything lines up with your budget.
And then pick a firm that matches your trading style.
And that's it.
And another thing is, wait for firms that have sales.
Watch my stream.
I tell you every day who's having a sale, a lot of times people don't just trade one.
They'll trade a bunch of them at once or trade a bunch of different firms and just bounce
where the sale is and know how to adapt to each one of them.
And you'll be able to as well, if you go through this bootcamp, because it'll tell you, well,
you know, we'll tell you all the different ways to trade each one of them.
But you might say, Ooh, this month ETF is a 90% off sale.
Perfect.
I'm going to go grab a bunch of their statics.
Boom.
I'm going to trade statics for a while.
Ooh, next month, Apex having a sale.
Okay.
Let me trade their trailings.
Right.
And when the sales come, that's when you want to load up because you're getting them for
cheap.
You're getting the best value when there's a sale or there's an influencer sale or
something.
And we're really good at letting you guys know what's on sale and when.
That's basically it.
Okay.
So this is concluding class one of the trader funding program masterclass, how to choose a
prop firm and how to budget within it and how to set up your trading style within
it and basically the different parameters, the basics.
Tomorrow, we're going to hit a bunch of these account types or in the next class, we'll
hit a bunch of these account types together and we will explore them together and how to
trade them.
All right.
